README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# comorbidPRS

<!-- badges: start -->

[![GitHub
tag](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/VP-biostat/comorbidPRS.svg?label=latest%20version)](https://github.com/VP-biostat/comorbidPRS)
<!-- badges: end -->

comorbidPRS is a tool for analysing an already computed PRS distribution
to investigate shared aetiology in multiple conditions.

comorbidPRS is under GPL-3 license, and is freely available for
download.

## Prerequisite

stats utils ggplot2 R version 3.5 or higher

## Installation

You can install the development version of comorbidPRS from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("VP-biostat/comorbidPRS")
```

## Example

### Building an Association Table

This is a basic example which shows you how to do basic association with
the example dataset:

``` r
library(comorbidPRS)

#use the demo dataset
dataset <- comorbidExample

#do an association of one PRS with one Phenotype
result_1 <- assoc(dataset, prs_col = "PRS_1", phenotype_col = "Phenotype_1")
```

| PRS   | Phenotype   | Covar | N_cases | N_controls |     N |       OR |        SE | lower_CI | upper_CI | P_value |
|:------|:------------|:------|:--------|:-----------|------:|---------:|----------:|---------:|---------:|--------:|
| PRS_1 | Phenotype_1 | NA    | NA      | NA         | 50000 | 1.197197 | 0.0044723 | 1.186749 | 1.207737 |       0 |

``` r
#do multiple associations
assoc <- expand.grid(c("PRS_1", "PRS_2"), c("Phenotype_1", "Phenotype_2", "Phenotype_3", "Phenotype_4"))
result_2 <- multiassoc(df = dataset, assoc_table = assoc, covar = c("Age", "Sex", "Covariate"))
```

| PRS   | Phenotype   | Covar             | N_cases | N_controls |     N |        OR |        SE |  lower_CI | upper_CI |   P_value |
|:------|:------------|:------------------|--------:|-----------:|------:|----------:|----------:|----------:|---------:|----------:|
| PRS_1 | Phenotype_1 | Age+Sex+Covariate |      NA |         NA | 50000 | 1.1971851 | 0.0044724 | 1.1867365 | 1.207726 | 0.0000000 |
| PRS_2 | Phenotype_1 | Age+Sex+Covariate |      NA |         NA | 50000 | 0.9988762 | 0.0045443 | 0.9900188 | 1.007813 | 0.8045741 |
| PRS_1 | Phenotype_2 | Age+Sex+Covariate |   24589 |      25411 | 50000 | 1.6967704 | 0.0098214 | 1.6644859 | 1.729818 | 0.0000000 |
| PRS_2 | Phenotype_2 | Age+Sex+Covariate |   24589 |      25411 | 50000 | 0.9972665 | 0.0089465 | 0.9799316 | 1.014908 | 0.7596387 |
| PRS_1 | Phenotype_3 | Age+Sex+Covariate |   25213 |      24787 | 50000 | 1.0086071 | 0.0089453 | 0.9910780 | 1.026447 | 0.3380300 |
| PRS_2 | Phenotype_3 | Age+Sex+Covariate |   25213 |      24787 | 50000 | 1.6947776 | 0.0098171 | 1.6625449 | 1.727772 | 0.0000000 |
| PRS_1 | Phenotype_4 | Age+Sex+Covariate |      NA |         NA | 50000 | 1.0019309 | 0.0127126 | 0.9772745 | 1.027210 | 0.8793929 |
| PRS_2 | Phenotype_4 | Age+Sex+Covariate |      NA |         NA | 50000 | 2.3658259 | 0.0146268 | 2.2991633 | 2.434845 | 0.0000000 |

### Examples of plot

``` r
densityplot(dataset, prs_col = "PRS_1", phenotype_col = "Phenotype_2")
```

<img src="man/figures/README-densityplot-1.png" width="100%" />

``` r
#show multiple associations in a plot
orplot(score_table = result_2)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-orplot-1.png" width="100%" />

``` r
centileplot(dataset, prs_col = "PRS_2", phenotype_col = "Phenotype_3")
```

<img src="man/figures/README-centileplot-1.png" width="100%" />

``` r
decileboxplot(dataset, prs_col = "PRS_1", phenotype_col = "Phenotype_1")
```

<img src="man/figures/README-decileplot-1.png" width="100%" />

## Citation

If you use comorbidPRS in any published work, please cite the following
manuscript:

<p>
Pascat V (????). <em>comorbidPRS: Assessing the shared predisposition
between Phenotypes using Polygenic Scores (PRS)</em>. R package version
0.0.0.9000.
</p>

Commit message:

fix: styler format ; README.md

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# comorbidPRS

<!-- badges: start -->

[![GitHub
tag](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/VP-biostat/comorbidPRS.svg?label=latest%20version)](https://github.com/VP-biostat/comorbidPRS)
<!-- badges: end -->

comorbidPRS is a tool for analysing an already computed PRS distribution
to investigate shared aetiology in multiple conditions.

comorbidPRS is under GPL-3 license, and is freely available for
download.

## Prerequisite

-   R version 3.5 or higher with the following packages:
    -   stats
    -   utils
    -   ggplot2

## Installation

You can install the development version of comorbidPRS from
[GitHub](https://github.com/VP-biostat/comorbidPRS) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("VP-biostat/comorbidPRS")
```

## Example

### Building an Association Table

This is a basic example which shows you how to do basic association with
the example dataset:

``` r
library(comorbidPRS)

# use the demo dataset
dataset <- comorbidExample
# NOTE: The dataset must have at least 3 different columns:
# - an ID column (the first one)
# - a PRS column (must be numeric, by default it is the column named "SCORESUM" or the second column if "SCORESUM" is not present)
# - a Phenotype column, can be factors, numbers or characters

# do an association of one PRS with one Phenotype
result_1 <- assoc(dataset, prs_col = "PRS_1", phenotype_col = "Phenotype_1")
```

| PRS   | Phenotype   | Covar | N_cases | N_controls |     N |       OR |        SE | lower_CI | upper_CI | P_value |
|:------|:------------|:------|:--------|:-----------|------:|---------:|----------:|---------:|---------:|--------:|
| PRS_1 | Phenotype_1 | NA    | NA      | NA         | 50000 | 1.197197 | 0.0044723 | 1.186749 | 1.207737 |       0 |

``` r
# do multiple associations
assoc <- expand.grid(c("PRS_1", "PRS_2"), c("Phenotype_1", "Phenotype_2", "Phenotype_3", "Phenotype_4"))
result_2 <- multiassoc(df = dataset, assoc_table = assoc, covar = c("Age", "Sex", "Covariate"))
```

| PRS   | Phenotype   | Covar             | N_cases | N_controls |     N |        OR |        SE |  lower_CI | upper_CI |   P_value |
|:------|:------------|:------------------|--------:|-----------:|------:|----------:|----------:|----------:|---------:|----------:|
| PRS_1 | Phenotype_1 | Age+Sex+Covariate |      NA |         NA | 50000 | 1.1971851 | 0.0044724 | 1.1867365 | 1.207726 | 0.0000000 |
| PRS_2 | Phenotype_1 | Age+Sex+Covariate |      NA |         NA | 50000 | 0.9988762 | 0.0045443 | 0.9900188 | 1.007813 | 0.8045741 |
| PRS_1 | Phenotype_2 | Age+Sex+Covariate |   24589 |      25411 | 50000 | 1.6967704 | 0.0098214 | 1.6644859 | 1.729818 | 0.0000000 |
| PRS_2 | Phenotype_2 | Age+Sex+Covariate |   24589 |      25411 | 50000 | 0.9972665 | 0.0089465 | 0.9799316 | 1.014908 | 0.7596387 |
| PRS_1 | Phenotype_3 | Age+Sex+Covariate |   25213 |      24787 | 50000 | 1.0086071 | 0.0089453 | 0.9910780 | 1.026447 | 0.3380300 |
| PRS_2 | Phenotype_3 | Age+Sex+Covariate |   25213 |      24787 | 50000 | 1.6947776 | 0.0098171 | 1.6625449 | 1.727772 | 0.0000000 |
| PRS_1 | Phenotype_4 | Age+Sex+Covariate |      NA |         NA | 50000 | 1.0019309 | 0.0127126 | 0.9772745 | 1.027210 | 0.8793929 |
| PRS_2 | Phenotype_4 | Age+Sex+Covariate |      NA |         NA | 50000 | 2.3658259 | 0.0146268 | 2.2991633 | 2.434845 | 0.0000000 |

### Examples of plot

``` r
densityplot(dataset, prs_col = "PRS_1", phenotype_col = "Phenotype_2")
```

<img src="man/figures/README-densityplot-1.png" width="100%" />

``` r
# show multiple associations in a plot
orplot(score_table = result_2)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-orplot-1.png" width="100%" />

``` r
# NOTE: The score_table should have the assoc() output format
```

``` r
centileplot(dataset, prs_col = "PRS_2", phenotype_col = "Phenotype_3")
```

<img src="man/figures/README-centileplot-1.png" width="100%" />

``` r
decileboxplot(dataset, prs_col = "PRS_1", phenotype_col = "Phenotype_1")
```

<img src="man/figures/README-decileplot-1.png" width="100%" />

## Citation

If you use comorbidPRS in any published work, please cite the following
manuscript:

<p>
Pascat V (????). <em>comorbidPRS: Assessing the shared predisposition
between Phenotypes using Polygenic Scores (PRS)</em>. R package version
0.0.0.9000.
</p>
